[EN] update FaaS & Serverless (#2217)
cncf/glossary: content/en/serverless.md

## What it is

> "Serverless Computing is a generic computing approach where servers are [abstracted](/abstraction/) from the user.
> All operational aspects like managing physical machines and providing VMs are tasks of the service provider.
> A service provider is typically a public cloud provider but also in-house IT departments can act as service providers for their own development teams.
> They offer interfaces for service users like SDKs, CLIs or OCI compliant runtimes where the focus is on code, configuration options or deploying/uploading artifacts.
> All offerings are pay-per-use.
> [Scaling](/scalability/) and provisioning of additional computing, storage or network resources happens without user interference based on the demand of the deployed applications and ecosystem services like data storage.
> A provider of a serverless platform pools resources and serves multiple users on the same physical machine.
> Tenants are isolated via virtualization approaches in particular [VMs](/virtual-machine/)." [(Manner 2023, p.520)](https://doi.org/10.1109/CLOUD60044.2023.00068)
> 
> Serverless is therefore an umbrella term for all services with these characteristics.
> Serverless offerings range from [Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)](/platform-as-a-service/) until [Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)](/software-as-a-service/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless Computing [abstracts](/abstraction/) servers away from the user.
Operational management falls to the service provider, including handling physical machines and VM provisioning.
Service providers can be public cloud entities or internal IT departments serving their development teams.
These providers offer user interfaces such as SDKs, CLIs, or OCI-compliant runtimes, focusing on code and deployment tasks.
Charges are based on a pay-per-use model.
[Scaling](/scalability/) and resource provisioning for computing, storage, or networking are automatically adjusted based on application demand without user intervention.
A serverless platform provider consolidates resources to serve multiple users on a single physical machine, ensuring isolation through virtualization, especially with [VMs](/virtual-machine/).

Serverless is a comprehensive term encompassing services with these attributes, extending from [Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)](/platform-as-a-service/) to [Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)](/software-as-a-service/).
```

## Problem it addresses

> Under a standard [Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)](/infrastructure-as-a-service/) [cloud computing](/cloud-computing/) model,
> users pre-purchase units of capacity, meaning you pay a public cloud provider for always-on server components to run your services.
> It’s the user’s responsibility to scale up server capacity during times of high demand and
> to scale down when that capacity is no longer needed.
> The cloud infrastructure necessary to run an app is active even when the app isn’t being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In traditional [Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS)](/infrastructure-as-a-service/) [cloud computing](/cloud-computing/) models, users commit to a predefined capacity, resulting in charges for continuous server availability regardless of actual use.
Responsibility for adjusting server capacity to meet fluctuating demands falls on the user, maintaining active infrastructure even during idle periods.
```

## How it helps

> With serverless architecture, by contrast, services are launched only as needed.
> A public cloud provider dynamically allocates resources for these services.
> The user does not have to pay when the service does not run.
> In addition to the cost and efficiency benefits,
> serverless frees developers from routine and menial tasks associated with app scaling and server provisioning.
> With serverless, routine tasks such as managing the operating system and file system, security patches,
> load balancing, capacity management, scaling, logging, and monitoring are all outsourced to a cloud services provider.
> 
> See also the glossary for [Function-as-a-Service (FaaS)](/function-as-a-service/).
> Serverless and FaaS are often used as synonyms, but there is a difference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Serverless architecture introduces a more efficient approach, activating services solely upon demand.
This model ensures dynamic resource allocation by a cloud provider, eliminating costs for unused services.
Beyond financial and operational efficiencies, serverless technology relieves developers of the burdens of scaling applications and managing server infrastructure.
Tasks such as operating system maintenance, security updates, load balancing, capacity planning, and monitoring are delegated to the cloud provider, streamlining the development process.

Also see the glossary entry for [Function-as-a-Service (FaaS)](/function-as-a-service/).
Serverless and FaaS are often used as synonyms, but there is a difference.

Refer to the [Function-as-a-Service (FaaS)](/function-as-a-service/) glossary entry for more information.
Although "serverless" and "FaaS" are often used as interchangeable terms, they embody distinct concepts.

```
